Previously on
"Star Trek: Discovery"...
What is that?
Discovery?
This is Stamets.
We've picked up a hitchhiker.
Its accessing
our ships datacore.
We have your, uh,
shuttle screens
mirrored here, sir. Whoa.
The probe is searching our
computers at incredible speeds.
Owo, beam us out, now, now, now!
Commander Airiam, are they safe?
Commander Airiam?
They are securely on board.
Thanks to Commander
Sarus enhanced eyesight,
he was able to get a better look
at the Red Angel.
The entity appears
to be humanoid.
Control,
which model Section 31s
threat assessments,
is probably rightfully alarmed
by a time-traveling being
pursuing its own agenda.
It has extremely
advanced technology.
And what happens when that
technology is turned against us?
It is critical Lieutenant
Spock be apprehended
as soon as possible.
And by fleeing with her brother,
Commander Burnham has committed
yet another act of mutiny.
Spock is innocent.
There were no murders.
I have seen the Red Angel.
And it revealed
the final outcome
- of our current timeline.
- And what is that outcome?
A future in which
all sentient life
in our galaxy
has been eradicated.
- In just a few minutes...
- Discovery will become
the most wanted ship
in the galaxy.
My limited experience
as a fugitive suggests
only one course of action.
And what is that?
We run.
Scans on my end were negative.
I don't think anyone
tracked me here.
Our scans were clear
as well, Admiral Cornwell.
Welcome aboard.
Wish it were under better
circumstances, Mr. Saru.
You've looked into my
concerns about Section 31?
I have.
But before we get into
any of that,
I need to speak privately
with Mr. Spock.
They were going to torture him
with technology thats
never even been seen
by the rest of Starfleet.
For all we know, they
couldve killed him.
Not to mention,
they ordered their agent
to sabotage our spore drive.
I'm aware of the accusations.
Whatever Section 31 said,
its not prudent
to trust them.
You may think were all
on the same team...
You have no idea
what Im thinking.
Where's Spock?
Beginning cerebral mapping.
Try not to move.
Okay. Lets begin.
State your rank,
position, and assignment.
My rank is Lieutenant.
And I am a science officer
assigned to
the starship Enterprise.
Lieutenant Spock, do you intend
to be truthful with me today?
I do.
Good.
Did you recently leave
a psychiatric facility
without permission?
No.
I committed myself
to the facility;
therefore, required no
permission to leave it.
When you left, did you murder
Starfleet personnel
in the process?
I did not.
- Did you kill them in self-defense?
- I did not.
Can you explain to me
why you did kill them?
Admiral, I believe
I've been quite clear.
I did not kill anyone at all.
He's innocent.
I know Tyler.
He wouldn't sabotage
our spore drive.
He's loyal to Starfleet.
He's loyal to Section 31.
They seem to have
a different agenda
than Starfleet these days.
Let me talk to him. Please.
No contact.
Thats an order.
I understand this
must be difficult
given your history with him.
But our mission takes priority.
Your brother is the only one
whos had direct contact
with the Red Angel.
I need you to help
him figure out
who it is and what they want.
- Can I count on you to do that?
- Of course, sir.
And I'll prove that
Tyler is innocent.
You can count on that, too.
How did you escape
the psychiatric facility
if not with violence?
I performed what is
colloquially referred to
as a "Vulcan nerve pinch."
A disabling maneuver never known
to inflict permanent harm.
You committed yourself
to the facility.
Why escape at all?
I did not initially
believe the visions
shown to me by
the Red Angel were real,
and therefore questioned
my sanity.
Once I learned I was sane,
to have remained confined
would have been unproductive.
Do you have any idea
why the Red Angel
chose you to receive
these visions?
I do not.
I have asked myself
that question many times.
Any idea what they mean?
Someone or something
is going to end
all sentient life in the galaxy.
And when you say the end
of all sentient life,
- you mean...
- I mean precisely that.
No humans, no Vulcans,
no Federation.
No conscious life of any kind.
Admiral...
If I may...
I believe him.
And I know for a fact
he didn't murder anyone.
Well, perhaps youre defending
him because you're his sister.
Not by blood.
He's telling the truth
about the murders.
Or he believes he is.
Uh, forgive me, Admiral,
but I fail to understand
your doubt.
Is the test
you administered inaccurate?
The test is 100% accurate.
But so is this...
Thats not the Spock I know.
It must have been doctored.
I verified the source codes.
The images come
straight from Psych.
The admirals who run Section 31
haven't responded to me in weeks.
Their threat-assessment
system, Control,
isn't accepting my
data-input codes anymore.
Any idea who programmed it
to shut you out?
Admiral Patar.
She's a logic extremist.
Frankly, I find her
fanaticism... worrying.
Once the signals appeared,
she started lobbying Starfleet
to turn its decision-making
entirely over to Control.
Control is a great resource.
Every Starfleet admiral
feeds data into it.
We consider its recommendations,
but final decisions
always include our experience
and instinct.
But to raise your concerns
with Starfleet,
you risk inadvertently
informing the admiral.
Which explains why
you have come here in secret.
The upside to being a fugitive.
How can we help?
Control is located
within Section 31s
forward operating base.
We need to go there,
arrest Patar,
and reset the system
to take our input,
as it always has.
We rely on Control
for all of our critical
strategic decisions.
If its in the hands
of extremists,
the entire Federation is in danger.
Right, then...
...we should get moving.
Admiral, Admiral, hello. Hi.
Lovely to see you, um...
I just wanted to tell you that
I'm-I'm not a fugitive.
I've never been
a fugitive before.
Except, well, when I was 16,
I went through kind
of a rebellious phase,
- and I, uh, hacked into...
- Did you have something
- to report, Ensign?
- Yes, sir. Uh... heh...
the subspace transmissions
that, that Tyler sent,
they went to 74 mark 5.6,
which is bizarre, because
there-there's nothing there.
Its just a bunch of empty
space and a penal colony
that was abandoned
over 100 years ago.
It's not abandoned.
Thats Section 31 headquarters.
Where is Mr. Tyler,
- by the way?
- Confined to quarters.
He can't do any further damage.
Start decrypting
those transmissions.
We need to know
what he sent them.
- Aye, sir.
- Lieutenant Detmer.
Set a course for
Section 31 headquarters.
Yes, Captain.
Admiral, with your permission...
The sooner we get there,
the better.
Hit it.
DISCOVERY*
Season 02 Episode 09
Title: "Project Daedalus"
Okay... do you want
- to say it or should I?
- You.
- Okay...
- No, me! Uh, we eloped!
Were married
to each other.
He is officially my...
Albatross.
Or ball and chain.
- What have I done?
- What have you done?
We just couldnt wait anymore,
you know?
And well tell you all about it,
every sickeningly sweet detail.
But first, we got to run.
Our shuttle boards in an hour.
We are so excited to come back
and celebrate with all of you
in person.
I'm gonna cry.
We've been gone so long.
But were coming home.
Return to archive.
Begin memory review.
Delete.
Wait, wait,
what-what do you mean?
I mean, I'm not playing Ka-dis-kot
with you anymore.
- Why?
- You know why.
Its the same reason
I am not playing
with her anymore, either.
Tilly, you've
memorized every possible gambit.
No, I have not.
Yes, I have.
But so has Airiam.
True.
Save to archive.
Dont hold back.
Come in.
Delete.
You better be saving
every single Moment with me.
Actually,
those memories are
always the first to go.
Oh.
Kind of lucky you get to delete
everything you want to forget.
If I could do that, I probably
wouldn't recognize my mother.
You'd be less envious
if you had
to go through
the process each week.
It can be tedious.
Still.
Hey, is that... that new?
I used to keep it... private.
But I think I like
having it out now.
Is this from the same beach?
Our last day together.
Our shuttle back home
went down, and...
Did you need me for something?
Oh, yes. Um...
decryption help.
- Mm.
- The sooner the better, if you can.
My memories
are not going anywhere.
I would be happy to help.
Youre fine.
Come on, which one of you
is missing from my spore drive?
Youre fine.
Could one of you
say something, please?
I don't like to listen to myself
talk when I have an audience.
We're thinking, Commander.
Think louder.
We know of two occasions
on which a signal was followed
by the appearance
of the Red Angel:
our mission to the asteroid,
and to Kaminar.
But a signal appeared by itself
- over Terralysium.
- And...
there was no signal when the
Angel appeared to me as a boy.
Or when it reappeared
to share its visions.
Perhaps there is
a significance in them
we have yet to understand.
Is the Angel using
these signals,
or the other way around?
Your visions have
to contain something
to help us understand
what the Angel wants.
I told you, I believe it wants
to warn us, nothing more.
Nen lhómek I sk ávdu tsífuzin.
- "You are tending a plant that is dead.
- " I know what it means.
Translation is not
the essence of understanding.
Do you have
a better suggestion, Spock?
My priority is to understand
why, of all sentient beings,
the Angel chose
to communicate with me.
So you think it wants something
from you personally?
It showed me
an apocalyptic future.
How I'm meant to prevent
that from occurring
is something I cannot
logically reconcile.
The purpose of logic
is to problem-solve
in an uncertain environment.
Maybe we need
a little inspiration.
Could you find that
inspiration somewhere else?
It turns out your loud thinking
is distracting.
You're fine.
Now I understand why this
was so difficult for you.
The key encryptions
are continually changing.
Good thing youre half robot.
I prefer "cybernetically
augmented," thank you very much.
Three cheers for cybernetics!
I don't know, Detmer. I mean,
she hasn't actually
done anything yet, so...
Oh.
I stand corrected.
Think you're pretty smart, huh?
Airiam?
I'm sorry, I was focused.
This may take a while longer.
Why don't you return
to your station
in case the Captain needs
you for anything?
Sure.
Um, thank you for everything.
I'm dropping us out of
warp in ten minutes, sir.
Pull up
defense schematics, please.
Admiral.
You want to tell us what kind of
shitstorm were flying into?
Okay...
welcome to Section 31
headquarters.
Zoom in, please.
As you can see,
it is heavily fortified
on all sides.
Are those mines?
- They are.
- The Federation
does not permit
the use of mines.
No.
No, they do not.
The Federation didn't build them.
I'd call that a distinction
without a difference.
We were under attack
by Klingon warships
with cloaking abilities.
Sometimes in war,
the terrible choice is
the only choice.
Giving up our values
in the name of security
is to lose the battle
in advance.
Im curious, did you sideline
the Enterprise because you knew
I'd never stop
reminding you of that?
You sat out the war...
because if wed lost
to the Klingons,
we wanted the best
of Starfleet to survive.
And as this conversation
makes clear,
that was you...
and all you represent.
Thank you.
Youre welcome.
Now, will you get off my ass
so we can get back to work?
Unlike Ensign Tilly,
you seem to have no individual
expression whatsoever.
It is quite an accomplishment
to be uniquely mundane.
Well, I express myself
through my work,
not my choice of decor.
Clearly.
I am attempting to understand
why the Red Angel chose me
to expose a threat
to the entire galaxy...
and your solution is
to play chess?
When the Red Angel showed you
visions you couldnt reconcile,
it caused you
to question your ability
to examine the world logically.
What better way
to return to logic
than via the game
that represents it?
It is arrogant of you to assert
that my present manner
of thinking
requires fixing at all.
It is arrogant of you
to assert it doesn't.
Or you're just afraid youll lose.
All right, Michael...
lets play chess.
- Commander Airiam.
- Hello, Nhan.
- May I help you?
- Tilly was looking for you.
What are you doing?
Searching for data to
help with the decryption.
For all the benefits
of my augmentation,
its storage capacity
is not infinite.
Your species is Barzan, yes?
- Yes.
- Your augmentation
allows you to breathe
in our atmosphere?
And why are you asking?
Curiosity.
I should return to the bridge.
Oh. I am so glad youre back.
Uh, whatever you did before,
its not working anymore.
- I don't understand.
- Yeah, neither do I.
I mean, its like the system knew
we were trying to crack it,
and it changed its tactics.
But thats impossible, because
its automated, its not alive.
Right?
I'd like you
to stand beside me.
Do not move until weve
solved this problem.
Do you understand?
- No, that's okay, you've got this.
- Please...
Tilly.
Um... yeah, okay.
Commander.
Dropping us out
of warp now, Captain.
Mr. Bryce... open a channel.
Tell Section 31 that Starfleets
- most wanted vessel is here.
- Captain,
sensors show all mines
are fully armed.
No response
to our hails, Captain.
They must be too busy
planning the welcome party.
Are you sure you can get us
through these defenses?
I wouldn't risk it otherwise.
Oh. My mission, your ship.
Lieutenant Detmer,
sending the route to you now.
Oh, one other thing
I should mention.
The shields
will have to be down.
Why?
The mines are attracted to them.
Nothing's ever easy.
Lower shields
and take us closer.
If there's a logical reason
to sacrifice your rook,
I fail to see it.
Perhaps I simply dislike rooks.
Perhaps... you're trying to lose.
An odd supposition
given that I am
a willing participant
in the game.
Sarek taught me
a more elegant strategy...
first day I played.
There are other strategies
that our father,
in his single-mindedness,
chooses to ignore.
I think our father
would be disappointed
in your lack of effort,
don't you?
I disappoint him,
he disappoints me,
the sun sets, a new day begins.
Oh, you're a philosopher now.
And you're a human,
and you cannot presume
to know Sareks mind.
The next logical move
would be for your knight
to take my pawn.
Seriously, what are you doing?
Disrupting your expectations.
I'm trying to help you, Spock.
I do not need your help,
Michael.
Our Captain says you do.
You are the only one
who has had contact
with the Red Angel.
You said you don't
understand why it chose you.
Thats where we need to start.
And logic will help.
I understand now.
If only I'd taken your pawn,
the mystery would be solved.
I refuse to take
this posturing seriously.
Its entirely out of character.
We've not seen each other
in years.
You've no foundation
for judging my character.
Yet here you are,
full of self-importance...
once again taking responsibility
for that which is
beyond your control.
My perception of reality
was challenged by visions
from a time-traveling entity.
Who should help me
but you, of course.
After all, the entire
Klingon War was your doing.
- No.
- Even your parents death
- was your responsibility.
- Stop it.
If only you hadnt asked to
watch a star become supernova.
But you're wise
to blame yourself.
Children should know
when a warfaring race
will attack without warning.
Perhaps you could
have done something.
A child fighting a Klingon...
those are excellent odds.
Shut up!
You were trapped on the other
side of a door, Michael.
You could not stop any of it.
You could not save them.
It is unreasonable for you
to believe otherwise, yet you do.
As you believed you could save
my family from logic extremists,
when in truth they
despised us because of me...
the half-human abomination.
Your presence
was beside the point.
Whatever point you're trying
to make, youre failing.
Then let me be clear.
You avoid reality
because it is easier for you
to shoulder burden
than to face unimaginable grief.
I thought this could be
a new start for us.
I really did.
Clearly, I was wrong.
Yes, you were.
We will never relate as equals
so long as you attempt to assume
every burden as yours alone.
Since were being honest
with each other,
you need to stop taking
whatever this is out on me.
You need to identify
why youre really angry.
There is nothing to identify.
I am angry, pure and simple.
Because you feel like you failed
as a Vulcan or as a human?
What I feel
is that failure is liberating.
And for the first time,
I enjoy expressing emotion.
Commander Burnham,
we need you on the bridge.
I'm on my way.
Yellow alert. Take us in.
Thats the most
defensive weapons I've ever seen
- in one place.
- Welcome to Section 31 headquarters.
No one from Control
will answer our hails.
Scans show no life signs,
but it is a former prison, so...
So it would have been designed
to prevent such scans
- from working.
- Find a work-around.
I need to know
what were walking into.
- I'll do what I can, sir.
- Are you all right?
I'm fine.
Ensign Tilly,
have you decrypted
those messages yet?
Moving as fast as we can, sir.
- Move faster.
- Captain.
We have a problem incoming.
Blade Mines.
They'll slice the hull
like cheese.
It appears that someone is
guiding them directly toward us.
That shouldn't even be possible.
Apparently it is.
Shields up. Red alert.
This is your Captain.
Brace for a bumpy ride.
Shields holding at 90%.
Begin evasive maneuvers.
Pattern lambda ten.
Yes, sir.
You should go help now.
But you said not to leave.
I've got this. And they need you.
Okay.
I can't shake these
Blade Mines, Captain.
Whoever's controlling them seem
to be anticipating our moves.
Switch to pattern gamma four.
Someone reprogrammed the mines.
I can't shut them off.
Mr. Bryce,
contact Starfleet Command.
Tell them to order
Section 31 to stand down.
Sensors are saying
that were upside down.
Those are blackout mines.
They interfere with navigation.
Blackout mines?
- The helm is not responding.
- It is, Lieutenant.
You're flying blind,
just like in the Academy.
Shields down to 41%.
No response from Starfleet, sir.
Keep trying.
Lieutenant Detmer...
I'm trying my best, Captain.
Not good enough.
This isn't a game.
Wait. What if it is?
- Quickly.
- If the mines are reprogrammed,
they're being guided
by a computer.
And like a game,
after a few moves,
it anticipates what well do.
Recommendations?
We need to introduce
randomness and chaos, sir.
Lieutenant Detmer,
trust your training.
You can do this.
- Mr. Saru, we need an evasive pattern.
- Uh.
Beta nine, Detmer.
Admiral.
Pi alpha two.
Commander Burnham.
Delta seven.
Lieutenant Owosekun.
Omega one.
Theyre moving away from us,
Captain.
- Injuries?
- Five, sir.
All from the engine room.
No casualties.
- Damage report?
- Warp and impulse engines
are inoperable, sir.
It's as if we were targeted.
And now were sitting ducks.
Sir, we're being hailed
by Section 31.
Its Admiral Patar.
Cancel red alert.
Put her through.
What the hell are you doing,
attacking a Federation starship?
My apologies, Admiral. Captain.
But Discovery is presently
harboring wanted criminals
and is, itself,
a fugitive vessel.
It was deemed too dangerous
to allow you
in proximity to our base.
We'll see what Starfleet has
to say. Lieutenant Bryce?
I'm sorry, sir. They're-they're
still not responding.
That is because
my order to attack
came directly
from Starfleet Command.
If Starfleet ordered an attack,
they can damn well say it
- to my face.
- Captain Pike,
please do not escalate
this situation further.
A Section 31 vessel is en route.
You will be boarded.
- For what reason?
- Starfleet regulations
are extremely specific
about the definition of treason.
Unfortunately, you, your crew
and the admiral all qualify.
If you think youre coming
to arrest us, think again.
Admiral, I do believe
you went to
Discovery with noble intentions.
However,
by abandoning your duties
to carry out a secret mission
with fugitives,
you became a fugitive yourself.
You no longer have the authority
to choose your own fate.
I understand this is more
than you bargained for,
but you cannot abandon
the mission, Chris.
Whether I can
issue orders or not,
we have to get a team onto
that station and reset Control.
What is it
about the look on my face
that suggests
I've changed my mind?
Lieutenant Rhys,
scan for any other weapons
on this base.
And call down to engineering.
We need that spore drive
up and running.
Mr. Saru,
form a landing party
and meet us in my ready room.
Uh, Captain, I believe
I can be more helpful here.
There is something I would
like to investigate.
Get to it, then.
Commander Burnham, youre up.
Okay.
Come on.
Please don't shock me.
You do realize inanimate
infrastructure cannot hear you.
Really? You're kidding.
Sorry, darling.
He just does not understand.
Ow!
Great.
Now there's a power short
on top of everything else.
This makes my work impossible.
And I am not being
hyperbolic when I say
the future of the
galaxy is at stake.
Well, uh...
unless I can reroute power
to the adjacent conduit,
isolate the corruption,
fix it and the spore drive,
were all gonna
get arrested, so...
if you want to save the galaxy,
start by helping me.
A fair point.
I didn't know you knew
anything about electrical.
I have many talents.
Point the light over here,
please.
So, did, uh...
Burnhams idea help?
Did you figure out why
the Red Angel chose you?
No.
I have examined it
from countless angles,
yet I remain
an illogical choice.
Well, have you thought
about what makes you unique?
I am half-human.
Unusual, but there are
others like me.
I can think of nothing else.
Well, if I were a Red Angel
traveling through time,
I'd plan my mind-melding
strategy pretty carefully.
Wouldn't just...
choose a random Vulcan.
Keep trying. Youll
figure it out.
Thank you.
Now, if only the spore
drive were that easy.
I think the corruption
might be with the navigator,
which, you know,
isnt important at all.
It just holds the map
to the entire mycelial network.
You have traveled that
network hundreds of times.
Surely you know it well enough
to travel between two
points without assistance.
Perhaps you simply lack
faith in your own abilities.
I know youre angry with Burnham,
but she risked her life
to bring you here.
She loves you.
If I may make an observation
of my own...
I saw Dr. Culber moving out
of your shared quarters.
You seemed quite upset.
Yes, he said he needs distance.
I submit that your assessment of
the situation may be inverted.
Perhaps he needs distance
from you
not because he no longer
has feelings for you,
but because he no longer knows
how to feel about himself.
Power and life support
systems are disabled everywhere
except for the Data Center
where Control is located.
So well have to beam over
in EV suits.
Because the politics
werent complicated enough.
Any idea how many
guards to expect?
I havent been on the site
since before the war.
Your guess is as good as
mine. Probably better.
Minimize the risks
as much as possible.
Lieutenant Detmer,
do your best to keep us in
range. Commander Airiam,
once they've secured
the Data Center,
you'll beam over and restore.
Admiral Cornwells
access to Control.
Sir, I should go with them.
If the threat assessment
system has backup protections,
I can circumvent them before
we lose access entirely.
I'll look after her, Captain.
Okay.
Good luck, everyone. Dismissed.
Look at you, going
off on a mission.
Dont forget about
us little people.
- I will do my best, Kayla.
- Mm-hmm.
Captain, still no life signs,
and gravity is out.
Please be careful.
Standing by to beam you out.
That's frozen blood.
Well, that can't bode well.
Burnham to Discovery.
Confirm visuals on EV suits.
We see you all
in the corridor, Commander.
Proceed with caution.
Yes, sir.
Commander Nhan,
can you find a way
to turn life support back on?
I'll be back in two seconds
if you need anything.
Lets stay close.
Captain, I'm seeing clear signs
of a struggle.
There's more blood.
Looks like someone was trying
to pry these doors open,
- or keep them from shutting.
- Any sense
of who was fighting whom?
Not yet.
What do you think killed him?
Thats a really good question.
Restoring power and gravity now,
Commander.
Burnham to Discovery.
At least four dead.
Im guessing we'll find more.
But we've got gravity
and atmosphere restored.
Biometric data indicates
the victim died at
least two weeks ago.
Bodies are frozen solid.
Captain, we have a problem.
Its Admiral Patar.
She's been dead two weeks.
If she's dead,
who the hell was I talking to?
Captain,
I believe
I can answer that question.
Look, as you know, all living
beings have a heat signature,
which changes
in high-stress situations.
When Admiral Patar's authority
was challenged,
I should have seen a change
in her signature,
but I did not.
As she was a hologram,
I now understand why.
Now... here is
the evidence against Mr. Spock.
In ultraviolet.
No changes despite
the violent attack.
This, too, is a hologram.
Which can only mean.
Section 31 framed Mr. Spock.
Control was programmed
to create this evidence.
After killing the admirals,
it used the same skill
to create Admiral Patar.
We're fighting the system itself.
Which would explain
why Admiral Cornwell
was locked out.
Control could also be
blocking our transmissions
to Starfleet Command.
Then why would it allow us
to send a team onto the station?
It must want something from us.
Actually, I think it might
want something from Airiam.
She downloaded all of her
archived data,
all of her memories
onto Discovery.
None of it is
in her head anymore, and
those memories meant everything
to her.
Find out what she downloaded
in their place.
Lieutenant Bryce,
open a secure channel
to Burnham and Nhan only.
Mr. Stamets, how are we
doing on that spore drive?
I'll be ready when you are, sir.
Good, because we might need it
very soon.
Looks like they were trying
to turn life support systems
back on again.
The door's closed on them
deliberately.
What could cause an entire
station to malfunction?
Commander Burnham,
Commander Nhan,
youre on with the Captain.
Commander,
what is Airiam doing?
Trying to restore
Admiral Cornwells access to Control.
No, she's not. Stop her... now!
What the hell was that?
Airiam, what are you doing?
Commander Airiam, stand down.
That is an order.
Do you hear me?
I said stand down!
Commander Airiam,
I need you to stop.
Burnham?
Burnham, are you all right?
- Michael?
- I'm fine.
I'm fine. What the hell is
- happening to her?
- Airiam's compromised.
Somethings controlling her
through her augmentation.
Sir, do you remember the Sphere?
It was... it was dying.
- It had a lot of data.
- I was there. Get to the point.
Okay, well, the messages
to Section 31...
they contained data
from the Sphere.
That's the data that Airiam
downloaded before leaving.
What did she bring over here?
All the information the Spher e
has ever collected
on artificial intelligence.
Why would Control want AI data?
A strategic advantage, perhaps.
That Sphere collected data from
countless civilizations over
hundreds of thousands of years.
That much knowledge...
whatever the problem,
you could never outthink it.
It would always win.
Oh, thats it.
It wants to think.
It wants to evolve.
That data's like a roadmap
for Control to become
fully conscious.
When it does...
It can destroy all other
sentient life in the galaxy.
Yes. That's what Spock saw
in his vision.
I'll delete
whatever she managed to upload.
Ugh! Damn it! I can't get in!
Can you delete the data
remotely?
I can't access the system,
and I definitely
can't hack Airiam.
She's trying to open the door
from the inside!
- We can't let her do that.
- I could... Maybe I...
If you have any ideas.
Open a channel to Airiam,
please?
You're on.
Thanks. Uh...
Airiam, hi. Its Tilly.
Uh, just a friendly reminder
that you saved every
memory you ever had with me.
I think that's because
you adored me.
And I adore you, too.
I'm gonna send you something.
Whatever this thing
is making you do,
this is not who you are.
You are a...
a Starfleet officer.
You're an amazing colleague,
and you are a great friend.
And also, like, the best
Kadis-kot player Ive ever seen.
And I should know. I won
regionals when I was, like, ten.
Airiam,
this is not you. Please.
You know Michael.
Shes your friend.
Airiam, I know you can hear me.
I can hear you, Tilly!
But I cannot stop myself.
Its overriding
my primary motor functions.
I was only able to transfer
25% of the AI data.
Control needs me to finish.
Michael,
you have to open the airlock.
Immediately.
What?
No!
No, I'm not gonna
eject you into space!
I will unlock this door,
I will kill you,
finish my mission.
Then I will destroy.
Discovery.
And all on board will die.
Please, Michael.
The airlock.
We can fight this, Airiam.
Commander Burnham,
what are you doing?
The system corrupted her.
If I can break in, and...
and take it offline,
shell be free.
Michael, stop.
I disabled my helmet.
I will not survive in space.
Commander Burnham.
Open the airlock.
Captain, I don't want
to disobey your orders,
but if this works...
Its her or you, Michael.
15 seconds.
Please!
Open the airlock, Michael.
One more minute! Please!
Hey, Airiam,
I'm gonna send you your favorite
memory, okay? Look at it.
I can't look at it now, Tilly.
Michael!
You have no other alternative
but to eject me!
Burnham, that's an order.
I'm so sorry.
It wanted me to kill you.
Everything is because of you.
Because of me?
Michael,
open the airlock.
Please tell everyone
I love them.
You have to find
Project Daedalus.
Where is Project Dae...
But were coming home.